Difference between Hbase and RDBMS ?
----------------------------------
		HBASE 																RDBMS
		-----															   --------
1.Column-oriented ,distributed ,versioned db.				   1.Row oriented ,Tabular structured data
2.Don't have query language like SQL.						   2.Have SQL query language support.
3.can handle structured andsemi structured data.               3.can handle structured data.
4.designed to store De-normalized data						   4.designed to store Normalized data.
5.no support for JOINS or aggregations						   5.support JOINS or aggregations 
6.Can handle huge  volume of data							   6.Can handle limited amount of data at a time.
7.Create structure/schema upfront.							   7.Schema is dynamic
8.not used memory to represent null	records					   8.used used memory to represent null records
9.validations while insert/delte/modify					       9.no validations while insert/delte/modify		

Q) When should prefer HBASE over other database?
	1. When each row is slighly different in the schema.
	2. When
	
Q)Hbase commands?
	start-hbase.sh/stop-hbase.sh

 Q)Write Operation in hbase:
	--------------------------
	 1.First data is written  to a commit log called "write ahead log" WAL,then it moved to seperate structure callled memstore.
	 2.when size of the memstore exceeds a given threshold (default 2 mb) it flushed into a file on disk called HFILE (hdfs file)
	 
Q)Delete operation on Hbase:
	-------------------------
	1.when delete nothing delete immediately,rather delete marker (ie thomstone) is written to indicate that a given key is deleted .
	2.during read process ,data marked as delete is skipped
	3.During major compaction ,delete process will be finalized.
	
Q) What is Compaction in hbase ?
   Flushing data from memstore to disk implies a creation of new hfile for each write 	operation  and we will end up with more hfiles ,
   so to avoid this there are two types  of compactions.
   Major Compation:
   ---------------
   Minor compaction is the process of combining the configurable number of smaller HFiles into one Large HFile. 
   Minor compaction is very important because without it, reading particular rows requires many disk reads and can reduce overall performance.
   
   Major Compaction:
   ----------------
   Major compaction is a process of combining the StoreFiles of regions into a single StoreFile. It also deletes remove and expired versions.
   By default, major compaction runs every 24 hours and merges all StoreFiles into single StoreFile. 
   After compaction, if the new larger StoreFile is greater than a certain size (defined by property), the region will split into new regions.
   
   
   
Q)
	
	