Micro services:
--------------
Q)What is Monolithic Architecture? 
	Monolithic architecture is like a big container in which all the software components of an application are clubbed inside a single package.
Q) Drawbacks of monolythic application?
	1)performance issue with  huge database.
	2)Continuos deployment not possible.
	3)adapt new technologies not possible.
	4)over load ide and overload webcontainer.
	5)excepton propagation  not proper.
	6)code resuable not there. 

Q)What is microserive archetecute?
   Micro service is architecutural way to design our application uniquely with  several small modules developed individually,package individually and deployed individually ,
   in individual process
	i)Highly maintainable and testable.
	ii)Loosely coupled.
	iii)Independently deployable
	iv)Organized around business capabilities
	v)Owned by a small team.
	vi)Each service can be developed with any technology.
Q) Drawbacks of microservices ?
  1. Increase troubleshoot challanges.
  2.Increase delay due to remote calls
  3.Increase the effort for configuration and other services
  4.Diffucult to maintain transaction safety
  5.diffucult to move code between services.
  6.debugging
  
Q)Comparision between monolythic and microservice ?

parameter       				   monolythic												  microservices
-----------						-----------------											-----------------
Developement 					develop in single language								each module can develop in different language
Testing 						small code change complete testing						Test only that microserivice
package							entire application as single war/jar					each service as one jar/war
runtime     					entire application as single process					eaach service as different process
scalability 					entire application is replicared an multile	services    can scale particular service  on multiple servers														
code changes 					full rebuild is required								changed service is rebuild


Q) microservices charactristics:
	1)individual development.
	2)individual deployment.
	3)individual maintanance.
	4)individual scaling.
	5)individual monitoring
	6)individual database.
	
	
Q)Microservices components
	Service registry & discovery  -> Erueka server
	Client side Load balancer -> Ribbon
	Cricuit Breaker -> Histrix
	Api gateway -> ZUUL
	ConfigServer -> Github
	Logging and trace -> slueth and zipkin
	metrics UI -> admin
	feign clent -> declarative restclient
	
Q)what is cloud native services ?
	cloud enabled application is an application running on cloud where hardware maintainance is reponsibility of cloud provider.
	cloud native application is an application running on cloud and taking adantages and facilitiees of cloud.
	To make spring microservices as cloud native we use spring cloud components and spring cloud netflix components.
Q) Best practices in microservices ?
    1) dockerize
	2)different databases per each services
Q) What is RESTful?
	Representational State Transfer (REST)/RESTful web services is an architectural style that helps computer systems to communicate over the internet. 
	These web services make microservices easier to understand and implement.
Q)What is Spring Cloud?
	Answer: While building a distributed system, there are a few problems that are encountered. They are Configuration Management, Service Discovery, Circuit breakers,
	and distributed sessions. Spring Boot is a collection of tools that provides solutions to such commonly encountered problems.
